README.md, before:

# Goodreads Skill for Openclaw

An Openclaw skill that lets AI agents interact with [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com) through browser automation. Since the Goodreads API was deprecated in 2020, this skill uses the `browser` tool to navigate and interact with Goodreads pages directly.

## Features

1. **Search for Books** — Find books by title, author, ISBN, or keyword
2. **Get Book Details & Reviews** — Retrieve title, author, rating, description, and top reviews for any book
3. **Get Personalized Recommendations** — Access your Goodreads recommendations (requires login)
4. **Manage Reading Lists** — Add books to shelves, mark as read, and rate books (requires login)

## Authentication

Some features require an active Goodreads login session in the browser:

| Feature | Login Required |
|---------|---------------|
| Search for books | No |
| View book details & reviews | No |
| Get recommendations | Yes |
| Manage reading lists | Yes |

When a login is needed, the skill will detect the auth state and guide you through signing in.

## Installation

### Via Clawhub (recommended)

```bash
clawhub install goodreads
```

### Manual Installation

Clone this repository into your Openclaw skills directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/surajssd/openclaw-goodreads-skill.git ~/.openclaw/skills/goodreads
```

Or symlink from a local clone:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills
ln -s "$(pwd)/goodreads" ~/.openclaw/skills/goodreads
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
openclaw skills list            # Should show "goodreads" in the list
openclaw skills info goodreads  # Show skill details
openclaw skills check           # Validate skill structure
```

## Browser Setup

This skill requires a browser configured in Openclaw. We recommend [Brave Browser](https://brave.com).

### 1. Install Brave Browser

Download and install Brave from [brave.com/download](https://brave.com/download).

### 2. Configure Openclaw

Add the browser configuration to `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`:

**macOS:**

```json
{
  "browser": {
    "executablePath": "/Applications/Brave Browser.app/Contents/MacOS/Brave Browser",
    "defaultProfile": "openclaw"
  }
}
```

**Linux:**

```json
{
  "browser": {
    "executablePath": "/usr/bin/brave-browser",
    "defaultProfile": "openclaw"
  }
}
```

For more details on browser configuration, see the [Openclaw Browser Tool documentation](https://docs.openclaw.ai/tools/browser).

## Usage

Invoke the skill in any Openclaw chat session:

```
/goodreads search for dune
/goodreads tell me about project hail mary by andy weir
/goodreads what are my recommendations?
/goodreads add the midnight library to my want to read shelf
```

Or use the generic skill invocation:

```
/skill goodreads search for the name of the wind
```

## How It Works

The skill instructs the AI agent to use the `browser` tool to:

1. Navigate to the appropriate Goodreads page
2. Take a snapshot of the page content
3. Extract relevant information from the snapshot
4. Interact with page elements (click buttons, fill forms) as needed

All interactions happen through real browser automation — no API calls are made.

## Project Structure

```
goodreads/
├── SKILL.md                # Main skill definition
├── references/
│   ├── URLS.md             # Goodreads URL patterns
│   ├── SELECTORS.md        # Page structure hints
│   └── WORKFLOWS.md        # Browser interaction sequences
└── assets/
    └── error-handling.md   # Error scenarios & recovery
```

## Contributing

Since Goodreads can change its page structure at any time, contributions to keep selectors and workflows up to date are welcome. When submitting changes:

1. Test all four skill capabilities (search, details, recommendations, shelves)
2. Test both logged-in and logged-out scenarios
3. Update `references/SELECTORS.md` if page structure changed
4. Update `references/WORKFLOWS.md` if interaction flows changed

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add disclaimer about Goodreads trademark and affiliation
Added legal disclaimer to clarify that this project is not affiliated
with or endorsed by Goodreads/Amazon, and that Goodreads is a trademark
of Amazon.com, Inc.

Signed-off-by: Suraj Deshmukh <surajd.service@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Goodreads Skill for Openclaw

An Openclaw skill that lets AI agents interact with [Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com) through browser automation. Since the Goodreads API was deprecated in 2020, this skill uses the `browser` tool to navigate and interact with Goodreads pages directly.

## Features

1. **Search for Books** — Find books by title, author, ISBN, or keyword
2. **Get Book Details & Reviews** — Retrieve title, author, rating, description, and top reviews for any book
3. **Get Personalized Recommendations** — Access your Goodreads recommendations (requires login)
4. **Manage Reading Lists** — Add books to shelves, mark as read, and rate books (requires login)

## Authentication

Some features require an active Goodreads login session in the browser:

| Feature | Login Required |
|---------|---------------|
| Search for books | No |
| View book details & reviews | No |
| Get recommendations | Yes |
| Manage reading lists | Yes |

When a login is needed, the skill will detect the auth state and guide you through signing in.

## Installation

### Via Clawhub (recommended)

```bash
clawhub install goodreads
```

### Manual Installation

Clone this repository into your Openclaw skills directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/surajssd/openclaw-goodreads-skill.git ~/.openclaw/skills/goodreads
```

Or symlink from a local clone:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.openclaw/skills
ln -s "$(pwd)/goodreads" ~/.openclaw/skills/goodreads
```

### Verify Installation

```bash
openclaw skills list            # Should show "goodreads" in the list
openclaw skills info goodreads  # Show skill details
openclaw skills check           # Validate skill structure
```

## Browser Setup

This skill requires a browser configured in Openclaw. We recommend [Brave Browser](https://brave.com).

### 1. Install Brave Browser

Download and install Brave from [brave.com/download](https://brave.com/download).

### 2. Configure Openclaw

Add the browser configuration to `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json`:

**macOS:**

```json
{
  "browser": {
    "executablePath": "/Applications/Brave Browser.app/Contents/MacOS/Brave Browser",
    "defaultProfile": "openclaw"
  }
}
```

**Linux:**

```json
{
  "browser": {
    "executablePath": "/usr/bin/brave-browser",
    "defaultProfile": "openclaw"
  }
}
```

For more details on browser configuration, see the [Openclaw Browser Tool documentation](https://docs.openclaw.ai/tools/browser).

## Usage

Invoke the skill in any Openclaw chat session:

```
/goodreads search for dune
/goodreads tell me about project hail mary by andy weir
/goodreads what are my recommendations?
/goodreads add the midnight library to my want to read shelf
```

Or use the generic skill invocation:

```
/skill goodreads search for the name of the wind
```

## How It Works

The skill instructs the AI agent to use the `browser` tool to:

1. Navigate to the appropriate Goodreads page
2. Take a snapshot of the page content
3. Extract relevant information from the snapshot
4. Interact with page elements (click buttons, fill forms) as needed

All interactions happen through real browser automation — no API calls are made.

## Project Structure

```
goodreads/
├── SKILL.md                # Main skill definition
├── references/
│   ├── URLS.md             # Goodreads URL patterns
│   ├── SELECTORS.md        # Page structure hints
│   └── WORKFLOWS.md        # Browser interaction sequences
└── assets/
    └── error-handling.md   # Error scenarios & recovery
```

## Contributing

Since Goodreads can change its page structure at any time, contributions to keep selectors and workflows up to date are welcome. When submitting changes:

1. Test all four skill capabilities (search, details, recommendations, shelves)
2. Test both logged-in and logged-out scenarios
3. Update `references/SELECTORS.md` if page structure changed
4. Update `references/WORKFLOWS.md` if interaction flows changed

## Disclaimer

This project is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by Goodreads or Amazon. Goodreads is a trademark of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. This skill interacts with the publicly accessible Goodreads website through browser automation.

## License

MIT
